---
layout: post_teaching
title: Class Logistics
category: math6040/7260spring2021
---

Welcome to Math 6040/7260: *Linear Models*. First of all and most importantly, I wish everyone stays safe and healthy during these challenging global times. Here is some essential information to get started with Math 6040/7260.

## Class webpage

Please bookmark and visit the course webpage frequently for the most updated information:
<https://tulane-math-7260-2021.github.io/>.

## Lecture format

With the COVID-19 pandemic going on, the lectures will be delivered in a hybrid mode.  Exams will be take-home to accommodate any future uncertainties.

I will deliver lectures at Tilton Memorial Hall 301 and Zoom <https://tulane.zoom.us/j/96066182198> on Mondays and Wednesdays (Mon/Wed 10:55am-11:40am).  Friday classes will be on Zoom only <https://tulane.zoom.us/j/96066182198> that consist a mixture of lectures and practical lab sessions.  Lectures will include a mixture of presentations using slides, plenty of chalk-board work and hands-on practicals.

## Grades

There will be one mid-term and one final exam.  There will be a set of homework problems (roughly) every two weeks.

All graduate students are required to deliver a 15-min talk (10 min presentation + 5 min questions) on one of the following topics (secure yours before others do).  You may suggest a topic outside of the pool too.  Undergraduate students are encouraged to participate too with bonus 5 points towards the final score.

|      | Math-6040 | Math-7260|
|:----:|:---------:|:--------:|
|Homework| 30% | 30%|
|Mid-term exam| 30%| 30% |
|Final exam| 40% | 30% |
|Presentation| 5% (bonus) | 10% |

### Topic pools

The topics are given by key words only.  Please practice your ability of "educated" searches with google.

- **Software** key words: stan, bugs & jags, hadoop, spark, tensorflow, Scikit-Learn, Blas & Lapack
- **Stastician** key words: R. A. Fisher, Carl Friedrich Gauss, Andrey Markov, Karl Pearson, Francis Galton, John Craig
- **Research** areas: Causal Inference, Forensic Statistics, Bayesian Statistics, Approximate Bayesian Computation, Sequential Monte Carlo method, Variational Bayes, Spatial statistics, Precision Medicine
- **Parallel computing**: OpenCL, Cuda, SIMD (SSE + AVX)
- **Other**: Frequentist vs. Bayesian debate, Fingerprints & DNA fingerprints